AGNES: What I find most astonishing -- aside from that belief of mine, which never ceases to surprise me by the very face of its suprising lack of unpleasantness, the belief that I might very easily -- as they say -- lose my mind one day, not that I suspect I am about to, or am even ... nearby ...
TOBIAS: There is no saner woman on earth, Agnes.
AGNES: ... for I'm not that sort; merely thit it is not beyond ... happening: some gentle loosening of the moorings sending the balloon adrift -- and I think that is the only outweighing thing: adrift; the ... becoming a stranger in ... the world, quite ... uninvolved, for I never see it as violent, only a drifting -- what are you looking for, Tobias?
TOBIAS: We will all go mad before you.  The anisette.
AGNES: Thank you, darling.  But I could never do it -- go adrift -- for what would become of you?  Still, what I find most astonishing, aside, as I said, from that speculation -- and I wonder, too, sometimes, if I am the only one of you to admit to it: not that I may go mad, but that each of you wonders if each of you might not -- why on earth do you want anisette?
TOBIAS: I thought it might be nice.
AGNES: Sticky, I will do cognac.  It is supposed to be healthy -- the speculation, or the assumption, I suppose, that if it occurs to you that you might be, then you are not; but I've never been much comforted by it; it follows, to my mind, that since I speculate I might, some day, or early evening I think more likely -- some autum dusk -- go quite mad, then I very well might.  Some autumn dusk: Tobias at his desk, looks up from all those awful bills, and sees his Agnes, mad as a hatter, chewing the ribbons on her dress ...
TOBIAS: Cognac?
AGNES: Yes; Agnes Sit-by-the-fire, her mout full of ribbons, her mind aloft, adrift; nothing to do with the poor old thing but put her in a bin somehwere, sell the house, move to Tucson, say, and pine in the good sun, and live to be a hundred and four.  Thank you, darling.
TOBIAS: Cognic is sticky, too.
AGNES: Yes, but it's nicer.  Sit by the me, hm?
TOBIAS: To my mad lady, ribbons dangling.
AGNES: And, of course, I haven't worn the ribbon dress since Julia's remarriage.  Second?  No, first.  Tom.  Not Charlie.  Are you comfortable?
TOBIAS: For a little.
AGNES: What astonishes me most -- aside from my theoretically healthy fear -- no, not fear, how silly of mee -- healthy speculation that I might some day become an embarassment to you ... what I find most astonishing in this world, and with all my years ... is Claire.
TOBIAS: Claire?  Why?
AGNES: That anyone -- be they one's sister, or not -- can be so ... well, I don't want to use an unkind word, 'cause we're cozy here, aren't we?
TOBIAS: Maybe.
AGNES: As the saying has it, the one thing sharper than a serpent's tooth is a sister's ingratitude.
TOBIAS: The saying does not have it that way.
AGNES: Should.  Why are you moving?
TOBIAS: It's getting uncomfortable.
AGNES: Things get hot, move off, huh?  Yes?
TOBIAS: I'm not as young as either of us once was.
AGNES: I'm as young as the day I married you -- though I'm certain I don't look it -- because you're a very good husband ... most of the time.  But I was talking about Claire, or was beginning to.
TOBIAS: Yes, you were.
AGNES: If I were to list the mountain of my burdens -- if I had a thick pad and a month to spare -- that bending my shoulders most, with the possible exception of Julia's trouble with marriage, would be your -- it must be instinctive, I think, or reflex, that's more like it -- your reflex defense of everything that Claire ... 
TOBIAS: Stop it, Agnes.
AGNES: Are you going to throw something at me?  Your glass?  My goodness, I hope not ... that awful anisette all over everything.
TOBIAS: No.
AGNES: What then?
TOBIAS: I shall sit very quietly ... yes, and I shall will you to apologize to your sister for what I must in truth tell you I thought a most ... 
AGNES: Apologize!  To her?  To Claire?  I have spent my adult life apologizing for her; I will not double my humiliation by apologizing to her.
TOBIAS: One does not apologize to those for whom one must?
AGNES: Neat.
TOBIAS: Succinct, but one of the rules of an aphorism ... 
AGNES: An epigram, I thought.
TOBIAS: An epigram is usually satiric, and you ... 
AGNES: ... and I am grimly serious.  Yes?
TOBIAS: I fear so.
AGNES: To revert specifically from Claire to ... her effect, what would you do were I to ... spill my marbles?
TOBIAS: Put you in a bin somewhere, sell the house and move to Tucson.  Pine in the hot sun and live forever.
AGNES: Hmmm, I bet you would.
TOBIAS: Hurry, though.
AGNES: Oh, I'll try.  It won't be simple paranoia, though, I know that.  I've tried sp hard, to ... well, you know how little I vary; goodness, I can't even raise my voice except in the most calamitous of events, and I find that both joy and sorrow work thier ... wonders on me more ... evenly, slowly, within, than most: a suntan rather than a scalding.  There are no mountains in my life ... nor chasms.  It is a rolling, pleasant land ... verdant, my darling, thank you.
TOBIAS: We do what we can.
AGNES: Our motto.  If we should ever go downhill, have a crest made, join things, we must have that put in Latin -- We do what we can -- on your blazers, over the mantel; maybe we could do it in the linen, as well ... 
TOBIAS: Do you think I should go to Claire's room?
AGNES: No.  Either she will be down, or not.
TOBIAS: We do what we can?
AGNES: Of course.  So, it will not be simple paranoia.  Schizophrenia, on the other hand, is far more likely -- even given the unlikelihood.  I believe it can be chemically induced ... if all else should fail; if sanity, such as it is, should become too much.  There are times when I think it would be so ... proper, if one could take a pill -- or even inject -- just ... remove.
TOBIAS: You should take drugs, my dear.
AGNES: An, but those are temporary; even addiction is a repeated temporary ... stilling.  I am concerned with peace ... not mere relief.  And I am not a compulsive -- like ... like some ... like our dear Claire, say.
TOBIAS: Be kind.  Please?
AGNES: I think I should wnat to have it fully .. even on the chance I could not ... come back.  Wouldn't that be terrible, though?  To have done it, induced, if naturally looked unlikely and the hope was there?  Not be able to come bacl?  Why did you put my cognac in the tiny glass?
TOBIAS: Oh ... I'm sorry ... 
AGNES: I'm a breather: my nose buried in the glass, all the wonder there, and very silent.
TOBIAS: I thought Claire was much better tonight.  I didn't see any need for you to giver her such a going-over.
AGNES: Claire was not better tonight.  Honestly, Tobias!
TOBIAS: I thought she was.
AGNES: Well, she was not.
TOBIAS: Still ... 
AGNES: Thank you, I have decided, all things considered, that I shall not induce, that's all the years we have put up with each other's wiles and crotchets have earned us each other's company.  And I promise you as well that I shall think good thoughts -- healthy ones, positive -- to ward off madness, should it come by ... uninvited.
TOBIAS: You mean I have no hope of Tucson?
AGNES: None.
TOBIAS: Helas ...
AGNES: You have hope, only, of growing even older than you are in the company of your steady wife, your alcoholic sister-in-law and occasional visits .. from our melancholy Julia.  That is what you have, my dear Tobias.  Will it do?
TOBIAS: It will do.
AGNES: I've never doubted that it would.  Hark.  Did I hear someone?
TOBIAS: Ah, there you are.  I said to Agnes just a moment ago ...
CLAIRE: I must apologize, Agnes; I'm ... very sorry.
TOBIAS: Look, now, I think we can do without any of this sort of ...
AGNES: If you come to the dinner table unsteady, if when you try to say good evening and weren't the autumn colors lovely day you are nothing but vowels, and if one smells the vodka on you from across the room -- and don't tell me again, either of you! that vodka leaves nothing on the breath: if you are expecting it, if you are sadly and wearily expecting it, it does -- if these conditions exist ... persist ... then the reaction of one who is burdened by her love is not brutality -- though it would be excused, believe me! -- not brutality at all, but the souring side of love.  If I scold, it is becuase I wish I needn't.  If I am sharp, it is because I am neither less nor more than human, and if I am to be accused once again of making too much of things, let me remind you that it is my manner and not the matter.  I apologize for being articulate.  Tobias, I'm going to call Julia, I think.  Is it one or two hours difference? ... I can never recall.
TOBIAS: Three.
AGNES: Ah, yes.  Well, be kind to Claire, dear.  She is ... injured.
CLAIRE: Be kind to Claire, dear.  She is ... injured.
TOBIAS: Ah, well.
CLAIRE: I have never known whether to applaud or cry.  Or, rather, I never know which would be more appreciated -- expected.
TOBIAS: You are a great damn fool.
CLAIRE: Yes.  Why is she calling Julia?
TOBIAS: Do you want a quikc brandy before she comes back?
CLAIRE: Not at all; a public one.  Fill the balloon half up, and I shall sip it ladylike, and when she ... glides back in, I shall lie on the floor and balance the glass on my forehaed.  That will give her occasion for another paragraph, and you ineffectual stop-it-now's.
TOBIAS: You are a great damn fool.
CLAIRE: Is Julia having another divorce?
TOBIAS: Hell, I don't know.
CLAIRE: It's only your duaghter.  Thank you.  I should imagine -- from all that I have ... wathced, that it is come-home time.  Why don't you kill Agnes?
TOBIAS: Oh, no, I couldn't do that.
CLAIRE: Better still, why don't you wait till Julia separates and comes back here, all sullen and confused, and take a gun and blow all our heads off? ... Agnes first -- through respect, of course, then poor Julia, and finally -- if you have the kindenss for it -- me?
TOBIAS: Do you really want me to shoot you?
CLAIRE: I want you to shoot Agnes first.  Then I'll think about it.